Inductive Transfer
In inductive transfer methods, the target-task inductive bias is chosen or adjusted
based on the source-task knowledge (see Figure 4). The way this is done varies
depending on which inductive learning algorithm is used to learn the source
and target tasks. Some transfer methods narrow the hypothesis space, limiting
the possible models, or remove search steps from consideration. Other methods
broaden the space, allowing the search to discover more complex models, or add
new search steps.
Baxter [2] frames the transfer problem as that of choosing one hypothesis
space from a family of spaces. By solving a set of related source tasks in each
hypothesis space of the family and determining which one produces the best
overall generalization error, he selects the most promising space in the family for
a target task. Baxter’s work, unlike most in transfer learning, includes theoretical
as well as experimental results. He derives bounds on the number of source
tasks and examples needed to learn an inductive bias, and on the generalization
capability of a target-task solution given the number of source tasks and
examples in each task.
Thrun and Mitchell [55] look at solving Boolean classification tasks in a
lifelong-learning framework, where an agent encounters a collection of related
problems over its lifetime. They learn each new task with a neural network, but
they enhance the standard gradient-descent algorithm with slope information
acquired from previous tasks. This speeds up the search for network parameters
in a target task and biases it towards the parameters for previous tasks.
Mihalkova and Mooney [27] perform transfer between Markov Logic Networks.
Given a learned MLN for a source task, they learn an MLN for a related
target task by starting with the source-task one and diagnosing each formula,
adjusting ones that are too general or too specific in the target domain. The
hypothesis space for the target task is therefore defined in relation to the sourcetask
MLN by the operators that generalize or specify formulas.
Hlynsson [17] phrases transfer learning in classification as a minimum description
length problem given source-task hypotheses and target-task data. That is,
the chosen hypothesis for a new task can use hypotheses for old tasks but stipulate
exceptions for some data points in the new task. This method aims for a
tradeoff between accuracy and compactness in the new hypothesis.
Ben-David and Schuller [3] propose a transformation framework to determine
how related two Boolean classification tasks are. They define two tasks as related
with respect to a class of transformations if they are equivalent under that class;
that is, if a series of transformations can make one task look exactly like the
other. They provide conditions under which learning related tasks concurrently
requires fewer examples than single-task learning